# FOO Requirements

## Ontology Requirements Specification Document (ORSD)
## Purpose
The Forest Observatory Ontology (FOO) aims to describe wildlife digital data generated by sensors. The primary
purpose is to backbone the Forest Observatory. That is, a linked datastore that allows unified access to heterogeneous
wildlife data and enables standardised data exchange between different computer systems and applications.
##  Scope
The Internet of Things (IoT) and wildlife make up the evolving scope of FOO. It adopts and combines classes and
properties from Sensor Observation Sample and Actuation (SOSA) and BBC Wildlife Ontology (WO).
##  Implementation Language
The Web Ontology Language (OWL2) is used to implement FOO.
##  Intended End-Users
• Bioscientists.

• Wildlife Researchers.

• Computer Scientists.

• Data Scientists.

##  Intended Uses
• To build linked data that offers data on-demand (i.e., granular data retrieval from disparate sources).

• For reasoning about the data of interest.

• Build Artificial Intelligence (AI) apps.

##  Ontology Requirements

### Functional Requirements

• FOO must include IoT elements, such as sensors.

• FOO must include wildlife concepts, such as taxon rank.

• FOO must contain the relationship between the Internet of Things (IoT) and wildlife concepts.

• 106 curated Competency Questions (CQs).

• 10 Natural Language Statements (NLSs).


### Non-Functional Requirements.
• FOO must be scalable to accommodate increasing amounts of wildlife and IoT data.

• FOO should be interoperable with existing wildlife data standards and systems.

• FOO The ontology must perform efficiently when reasoning over large datasets.
